docs: add quote-to-order tutorial with slippage guidance (#587)
cowprotocol/docs: docs/cow-protocol/tutorials/quote-to-order.mdx

---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# From Quote to Order: Applying Slippage

> This tutorial explains how to use the CoW Protocol API to get a quote, apply slippage tolerance, and place an order. This is the most common integration pattern for partners building on CoW Protocol.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial explains how to use the CoW Protocol API to get a quote, apply slippage tolerance, and place an order.
```

:::caution Important

> The quote response provides an **estimated** price. You should **not** sign and submit it directly. You must apply your desired slippage tolerance before signing the order.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The quote response provides an **estimated** price and does not incorporate any slippage tolerance. Because of this, you should **not** sign and submit it directly, unless you want to submit an order with zero slippage tolerance.
```

  "from": "0xYourWalletAddress",
  "expiration": "2026-01-22T21:41:26.245665167Z",
  "id": 1053640793,
  "verified": true
}
```

### Buy Order Example

When you want to buy a specific amount of tokens:

```bash
curl -X POST "https://api.cow.fi/mainnet/api/v1/quote" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "sellToken": "0xA0b86991c6218b36c1d19D4a2e9Eb0cE3606eB48",
    "buyToken": "0xC02aaA39b223FE8D0A0e5C4F27eAD9083C756Cc2",
    "buyAmountAfterFee": "100000000000000000",
    "kind": "buy",
    "from": "0xYourWalletAddress"
  }'
```

Response:

```json
{
  "quote": {
    "sellToken": "0xa0b86991c6218b36c1d19d4a2e9eb0ce3606eb48",
    "buyToken": "0xc02aaa39b223fe8d0a0e5c4f27ead9083c756cc2",
    "sellAmount": "294554318",
    "buyAmount": "100000000000000000",
    "feeAmount": "147148",
    "kind": "buy",
    "validTo": 1769119810,
    "appData": "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
    "partiallyFillable": false,
    "sellTokenBalance": "erc20",
    "buyTokenBalance": "erc20",
    "signingScheme": "eip712"
  },
  "from": "0xYourWalletAddress",
  "expiration": "2026-01-22T21:42:10.715280266Z",
  "id": 1053641256,
  "verified": true
}
```

> 

Reviewer: We should add some explanation here about the decomposition of `sellAmountBeforeFee` in the request as 

```
sellAmount + feeAmount
```
in the response.

And what this `feeAmount` means.  And we should stress this fee is just an estimation, and is not used for signing, i.e., what the user will end up signing is always a fee=0 order, which means that the fee needs to be added back to the sellAmount

### For Sell Orders

You are selling a fixed amount and receiving tokens. Apply slippage to the **buy amount** (the amount you receive):

```
actualBuyAmount = quoteBuyAmount × (10000 - slippageBps) / 10000
```

Where `slippageBps` is slippage in basis points (50 = 0.5%, 100 = 1%).

**Example with 0.5% slippage (50 basis points):**

- Quote `buyAmount`: `339197126040197395` (≈0.339 WETH)
- Slippage: 50 bps (0.5%)
- Calculation: `339197126040197395 × (10000 - 50) / 10000 = 337501140409996408`
- Actual `buyAmount`: `337501140409996408`

This means you're willing to accept at minimum ~0.3375 WETH instead of the quoted ~0.339 WETH.

### For Buy Orders

You are buying a fixed amount and paying with tokens. Apply slippage to the **sell amount** (the amount you pay):

```
actualSellAmount = quoteSellAmount × (10000 + slippageBps) / 10000
```

Where `slippageBps` is slippage in basis points (50 = 0.5%, 100 = 1%).

**Example with 0.5% slippage (50 basis points):**

- Quote `sellAmount`: `294554318` (≈294.55 USDC)
- Slippage: 50 bps (0.5%)
- Calculation: `294554318 × (10000 + 50) / 10000 = 296027089`

> - Actual `sellAmount`: `296027089`

Reviewer: This is wrong. for buy orders, as i mentioned in the comment above, you need to add back the feeAmount returned in the quote response. And there are 2 ways of doing it:
1. Either you do the slippage tolerance as you did it above and then add back the feeAmount, or
2. First add back the feeAmount and then apply the slippage tolerance.

I would suggest we go with the (2) to give a bit more room to the limit price

> This means you're willing to pay at most ~296.03 USDC instead of the quoted ~294.55 USDC.

Reviewer: This needs fixing

## Step 3: Sign and Submit the Order

After applying slippage, create the order object with the adjusted amounts and sign it.

> ### TypeScript Example

Reviewer: i wouldn't really add script/code here
